>> Ifill: GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: ON THE PBS NEWSHOUR
TONIGHT: AN AGGRESSIVERRES AT
CAUGHT ON CAMERA-- NEW VIDEO OF
SANDRA BLAND'S TRAFFIC STOP
BEFORE SHE DIED IN POLICE
CUSTODY IN TEXAS.
>> Woodruff: PROSECUTING NAZIS
FOR WAR CRIMES-- THE PURSUIT OF
S.S. OFFICERS STILL ALIVE AND
COMPLICIT IN THE HORRORS OF THE
HOLOCAUST.
>> Ifill: PLUS:
>> THE PASSAGE OF TIME IN NO WAY
DIMINISHES THE GUILT OF THE
KILLER.
IT DOESN'T TURN PEOPLE ACCUSED
OF MURDER INTO RIGHTEOUS
GENTILES.
THEY HAVE ABSOLUTELY NO SYMPATHY
FOR THE VICTIMS.
>> Ifill: PLUS:
>> GUYS I'M STUCK ON THE
HIGHWAY.
>> I DON'T KNOW I THINK HE'S
PANICKING.
>> Ifill: DANGER ON THE ROAD--
HOW HACKERS HIJACK THE COMPUTER
SYSTEM OF A CAR WHILE SOMEONE
ELSE IS DRIVING.
>> Woodruff: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: SENIOR OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS WERE ON
CAPITOL HILL TODAY TO RALLY
SUPPORT BEHIND THE IRAN NUCLEAR
DEAL.
HOUSE LAWMAKERS STREAMED INTO A
SECURE MEETING ROOM FOR A
CLASSIFIED BRIEFING FROM
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY,
ENERGY SECRETARY ERNEST MONIZ,
AND TREASURY SECRETARY JACK LEW.
REACTION SO FAR HAS BEEN MIXED,
AS CONGRESS BEGINS ITS GO-DAY
REVIEW PERIOD.
>> I THINK IT'S FAIR TO SAY
THERE IS BIPARTISAN SKEPTICISM
ABOUT WHETHER IRAN WILL MEET ITS
COMMITMENTS UNDER THIS DEAL,
WHETHER ADMIN WILL HOLD THEM TO
IT.
AND ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS TO ALL OF
IRAN'S OTHER ACTIVITIES.
>> YOU CAN ALWAYS DREAM OF A
BETTER DEAL BUT LOOK WHERE WE
WERE WHEN IRAN WAS A NUCLEAR
THRESHOLD STATE BEFORE THIS
NEGOTIATION BEGAN AND CONSIDER
WHERE THE DEAL PUTS YOU IN
CONTRAST TO WHERE WE WERE AND
CONSIDER THE QUESTION THAT IS
DIFFICULT TO ANSWER WHICH IS
IMAGINE NOT DOING IT AND WHERE
DOES THAT PUT YOU?
>> Ifill: REPUBLICAN HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER ALSO VOWED
TO DO "EVERYTHING POSSIBLE" TO
STOP THE NUCLEAR DEAL FROM
BECOMING A REALITY.
THE HOUSE AND SENATE ARE
EXPECTED TO VOTE ON THE
AGREEMENT IN SEPTEMBER.
>> Woodruff: THE F.B.I. REPORTED
THAT THE GUNMAN WHO KILLED FIVE
U.S. MILITARY SERVICE MEMBERS IN
CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE, LAST
WEEK, ACTED ALONE.
THE BUREAU GAVE AN UPDATE TODAY
ON ITS INVESTIGATION INTO 24-
YEAR-OLD MUHAMMAD YOUSSEF
ABDULAZEEZ.
THE SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE, ED
REINHOLD, SAID IT WAS TOO SOON
TO PAINT A FULL PICTURE OF
ABDULAZEEZ.
>> AT THIS POINT, IT'S TOO EARLY
IN THE INVESTIGATION TO
DETERMINE WHETHER OR NOT HIS --
WHETHER OR NOT HE HAD BEEN
RADICALIZED.
SO WE ARE PURSUING THAT AS A
POSSIBILITY, BUT IT IS TOO EARLY
IN THE INVESTIGATION TO
DETERMINE.
AT THIS TIME, WE'RE TREATING HIM
AS A HOME-GROWN VIOLENT
EXTREMIST.
WE BELIEVE HE ACTED ON HIS OWN
THAT DAY.
>> Woodruff: REINHOLD ALSO SAID
PRELIMINARY REPORTS INDICATE ALL
OF THE VICTIMS DIED FROM BULLETS
FROM THE SAME GUN.
>> Ifill: THE SUSPECT IN THE
DEADLY SHOOTING RAMPAGE AT A
BLACK CHURCH IN CHARLESTON,
SOUTH CAROLINA WILL FACE FEDERAL
HATE CRIME CHARGES.
21-YEAR-OLD DYLANN ROOF KILLED
NINE BLACK WORSHIPPERS IN LAST
MONTH'S ATTACK.
TODAY, U.S. ATTORNEY GENERAL
LORETTA LYNCH UNVEILED THE
CHARGES IN WASHINGTON.
>> WE HAVE HERE A DEFENDANT WHO
IS ALLEGED TO HAVE HARBORED
DISCRIMINATORY VIEWS TOWARDS
AFRICAN AMERICANS, TO HAVE
SOUGHT OUT AN AFRICAN AMERICAN
HOUSE OF WORSHIP, ONE THAT WAS
PARTICULARLY NOTED BECAUSE OF
ITS AGE AND SIGNIFICANCE, AND HE
ALSO SOUGHT OUT AFRICAN AMERICAN
PARISHIONERS AT WORSHIP,
IMPLICATING SEVERAL HATE CRIMES
STATUTES.
RACIALLY MOTIVATED VIOLENCE SUCH
AS THIS IS THE ORIGINAL DOMESTIC
TERRORISM.
>> Ifill: NO DECISION HAS BEEN
MADE YET ON WHETHER AUTHORITIES
WILL SEEK THE DEATH PENALTY.
>> Woodruff: THERE WERE WORDS OF
WARNING TODAY FROM THE TRUSTEES
WHO OVERSEE THE SOCIAL SECURITY
SYSTEM.
THE DISABILITY TRUST FUND WILL
RUN OUT OF MONEY IN LATE 2016,
TRIGGERING AN AUTOMATIC 19% CUT
IN BENEFITS.
THE TRUSTEES URGED CONGRESS TO
ACT BEFORE THAT HAPPENS-- IN THE
MIDDLE OF A PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN.
CONGRESS COULD SHIFT REVENUE
FROM SOCIAL SECURITY'S LARGER
RETIREMENT FUND, BUT REPUBLICANS
ARE PUSHING FOR FUNDAMENTAL
CHANGES IN THE PROGRAM ITSELF.
>> Ifill: MORE TEENAGE GIRLS ARE
NOW USING THE MORNING-AFTER
PILL.
A NEW SURVEY RELEASED TODAY BY
THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
AND PREVENTION FOUND MORE THAN
ONE IN FIVE TEEN GIRLS HAVE
TAKEN THE EMERGENCY
CONTRACEPTIVE.
THAT'S UP FROM ONE IN 12 A
DECADE AGO.
THE PILLS ARE MORE ACCESSIBLE
NOW THAT THEY ARE AVAILABLE
WITHOUT A PRESCRIPTION.
>> Woodruff: IN GREECE TONIGHT:
LAWMAKERS MOVED TOWARD A CRUCIAL
LATE-NIGHT VO TO TEREFORM THE
COUNTRY'S BANKING AND JUDICIAL
SYSTEMS.
THE HIGH-STAKES VOTE IS REQUIRED
BY GREECE'S INTERNATIONAL
CREDITORS IN ORDER TO CLEAR THE
WAY FOR A THIRD ROUND OF BAILOUT
NEGOTIATIONS.
FAILURE TO PASS THE ECONOMIC
MEASURES COULD TRIGGER FRESH
FEARS ABOUT GREECE'S FUTURE IN
THE EUROZONE.
>> Ifill: CHINESE DISSIDENT AI
WEIWEI GOT HIS PASSPORT BACK
FROM THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
TODAY.
THE ARTIST POSTED A PHOTO TO
SOCIAL MEDIA SHOWING THE
PASSPORT IN HIS HANDS.
IT WAS CONFISCATED FOUR YEARS
AGO, WHEN HE WAS DETAINED BY
AUTHORITIES FOR THREE MONTHS,
BUT NEVER CHARGED.
AI HAS LONG BEEN OUTSPOKEN
AGAINST THE RULING COMMUNIST
PARTY.
THE ARTIST PLANS TO ATTEND AN
EXHIBITION IN LONDON THIS FALL.
THE WHITE HOUSE IS IN THE FINAL
STAGES OF DRAFTING A PLAN TO
CLOSE THE MILITARY PRISON AT
GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JOSH
EARNEST ANNOUNCED THAT TODAY.
HE SAD THE PLAN WOULD BE SHARED
WITH LAWMAKERS IN CONGRESS AS
SOON AS IT'S FINISHED.
REPUBLICANS HAVE LARGELY OPPOSED
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PLAN TO SHUT
IT DOWN, ARGUING THAT
TRANSFERRING DANGEROUS PRISONERS
TO OTHER COUNTRIES MAY LEAD TO
THEIR EVENTUAL FREEDOM.
>> Woodruff: SCHOLARS IN BRITAIN
HAVE DISCOVERED THE FRAGMENTS OF
ONE OF THE OLDEST KNOWN COPIES
OF THE QURAN.
UNIVEITY RSOF BIRMINGHAM
RESEARCHERS SAID RADIOCARBON
DATING INDICATES THE TWO PAGE
FOLIO IS AT LEAST 1,370 YEARS
OLD.
THAT SUGGESTS THEY WERE WRITTEN
WITHIN A FEW YEARS OF THE
FOUNDING OF ISLAM.
AND ISLAM SCHOLAR DAVID THOMAS
SAID THE PARCHMENT COULD ALSO
HAVE BEEN MADE FROM AN ANIMAL
ALIVE DURING THE PROPHET
MOHAMMAD'S LIFETIME.
>> THE PARTS OF THE QUR'AN THAT
ARE CONTAINED IN THIS FRAGMENT
ARE VERY SIMILAR INDEED TO THE
QUR'AN AS WE HAVE IT TODAY AND,
SO, THIS TENDS TO SUPPORT THE
VIEW THAT THE QUR'AN THAT WE NOW
HAVE IS MORE OR LESS VERY CLOSE,
INDEED, TO THE QUR'AN AS IT WAS
BROUGHT TOGETHER.
>> Woodruff: THE UNIVERSITY
DIDN'T ORIGINALLY REALIZE WHAT
IT HAD BECAUSE THE PAGES HAD
BEEN BOUND WITH LEAVES OF A
SIMILAR, BUT NEWER, QURAN
MANUSCRIPT FROM THE LATE SEVENTH
CENTURY.
>> Ifill: STOCKS TURNED SOUTH ON
WALL STREET TODAY AFTER
DISAPPOINTING TECH EARNINGS
REPORTS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 68 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
17,851.
THE NASDAQ FELL 36 POINTS AND
THE S&P 500 DROPPED FIVE.
>> Woodruff: AMERICAN NOVELIST
E. L. DOCTOROW HAS DIED.
HE PASSED AWAY YESTERDAY IN NEW
YORK FROM COMPLICATIONS OF LUNG
CANCER.
DOCTOROW WAS BEST KNOWN FOR HIS
WORKS OF HISTORIC FICTION LIKE
"RAGTIME", "BILLY BATHGATE", AND
"THE MARCH".
HIS CRITICALLY-ACCLAIMED NOVELS
WOULD EARN HIM A NUMBER OF TOP
LITERARY HONORS-- FROM THE
NATIONAL BOOK AWARD TO THE
NATIONAL HUMANITIES MEDAL.
E. L. DOCTOROW WAS 84 YEARS O.LD
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
WHAT DOES NEW DASH CAM VIDEO OF
SANDRA BLAND'S ARREST TELL US?
A NAZI HUNTER WHO PURSUES WAR
CRIMINALS TO THE GRAVE AND MUCH
MORE.
>> Woodruff:.
>> Ifill: NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN
THE CASE OF SANDRA BLAND, THE
WOMAN FOUND DEAD IN A TEXAS JAIL
THREE DAYS AFTER BEING ARRESTED
FOR A ROUTINE TRAFFIC VIOLATION.
THE FULL VIDEO OF THE ARREST
RECORDED FROM THE POLICE
OFFICER'S DASHBOARD CAMERA CAST
NEW LIGHT ON THE ARREST AS HER
FAMILY SEARCHES FOR ANSWERS.
>> OKAY, MA'AM.
>> Ifill: THE VIDEO SHOWS STATE
TROOPER BRIAN ENCINIA
APPROACHING SANDRA BLAND'S CAR
ON JULY 10TH IN WALLER COUNTY,
TEXAS.
HE PULLED HER OVER FOR FAILING
TO SIGNAL A LANE CHANGE.
>> YOU SEEM VERY IRRITATED.
>> Ifill: THE DISPUTE ESCALATED
WHEN ENCINIA ASKED BLAND TO PUT
OUT HER CIGARETTE.
SHE REFUSED, AND HE ORDERED HER
OUT OF THE CAR.
>> I DON'T HAVE TO STEP OUT OF
MY CAR.
>> STEP OUT OF THE CAR.
>> NO, YOU DON'T HAVE THE RIGHT.
>> STEP OUT OF THE CAR!
>> Ifill: ENCINIA THREATENS TO
DRAG BLAND OUT; SHE REFUSES.
THEN, HE PULLS HIS TASER.
>> GET OUT OF THE CAR!
I WILL LIGHT YOU UP!
GET OUT NOW!
>> Ifill: THE TWO CAN STILL BE
HEARD YELLING AS THE INCIDENT
CONTINUED OUTSIDE THE DASHBOARD
CAMERA'S RANGE AS A SECOND
OFFICER APPARENTLY ARRIVED ON
SCENE.
BUT A BYSTANDER FILMED THIS
VIDEO WITH A SMARTPHONE IN WHICH
AN UPSET BLAND CAN BE HEARD
SAYING THE OFFICER THREW HER TO
THE GROUND.
THE TROOPER HAS BEEN PLACED ON
ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE.
POLICE OFFICIALS SAID HE
VIOLATED TRAFFIC-STOP
PROCEDURES.
BLAND WAS FOUND DEAD IN HER JAIL
CELL THREE DAYS LATER.
AUTHORITIES SAID SHE HANGED
HERSELF WITH A PLASTIC GARBAGE
BAG.
BUT FAMILY AND FRIENDS DISPUTED
THAT FINDING.
JAILHOUSE VIDEO RELEASED MONDAY
SHOWED NO OFFICERS NEAR HER CELL
FOR 90 MINUTES BEFORE EMERGENCY
TECHNICIANS WHEELED IN A
STRETCHER.
WALLER COUNTY'S DISTRICT
ATTORNEY NOW SAY BLAND'S DEATH
WAS "BEING TREATED LIKE A MURDER
INVESTIGATION."
TODAY, BLAND'S BODY WAS FLOWN
BACK TO HER HOME OUTSIDE
CHICAGO, WHERE SHE'LL BE BURIED
SATURDAY.
HER FAMILY SPOKE THIS AFTERNOON.
>> SHE WAS PULLED OVER FOR
SOMETHING SO INSIGNIFICANT AND,
BECAUSE OF AN OFFICER WHO FELT
LIKE MAYBE HIS EGO WAS BRUISED
AND GOT IN THE WAY, NOT ONCE DID
HE EVER SAY HE FELT THREATENED,
BUT WHEN YOU TELL ME THAT YOU'RE
GOING TO "LIGHT ME UP," I FEEL
EXTREMELY THREATENED AND
CONCERNED AND I'M NOT GOING TO
GET OUT OF MY CAR.
>> WE WANT THE ANSWERS AND SANDY
DEMANDS THEM AND WE WILL FIND
THEM.
>> Ifill: TEXAS GOVERNOR GREG
ABBOTT, IN A STATEMENT TODAY,
SAID:
THE ROUGHLY-50-MINUTE DASH-CAM
VIDEO RELEASED LATE YESTERDAY
DREW CRITICISM FOR APPARENT JUMP
CUTS, WHICH LED TO CHARGES THAT
IT HAD BEEN EDITED.
THE TEXAS DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC
SAFETY DENIED THAT ACCUSATION,
AND SAID THE GLITCHES OCCURRED
WHEN THE RECORDING WAS UPLOADED
FOR PUBLIC VIEWING.
A SECOND, CORRECTED VERSION OF
THE VIDEO WAS RELEASED THIS
AFTERNOON.
SO HOW DOES THAT DISPUTED VIDEO
CHANGE OUR UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT
HAPPENED?
AND WHERE DOES THAT PROMISED
THOROUGH INVESTIGATION STAND?
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO ALANA
ROCHA, MULTIMEDIA REPORTER FOR
"THE TEXAS TRIBUNE."
I SPOKE WITH HER A SHORT TIME
AGO.
ALANA ROCHA, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
THIS STORY SEEMS DIVIDED INTO
TWO PARTS, THE STORY ABOUT THE
DISPUTED VIDEO AND THEN,
OBVIOUS, THREE DAYS LATER THE
DISPUTE OVER HOW SHE DIED.
LET'S TALK ABOUT THE VIDEO
FIRST.
WHAT IS AT THE ROOT OF THE
DISPUTE OVER WHAT WE SAW ON THAT
VIDEO?
>> WELL, HER INITIAL REASON --
OR THE OFFICER'S INITIAL REASON
FOR PULLING HER OVER WAS
CHANGING LANES WITHOUT
SIGNALING.
SHE TRIED TO EXPLAIN WHY SHE WAS
FROM YOU STRAYED, SHE SAW HIM
COMING BEHIND HER, WANTED TO GET
OUT OF THE WAY AND WAS THINKING
AND MAYBE DIDN'T SIGNAL.
SHE WAS OBVIOUSLY FRUSTRATED,
EXPRESSES THAT TO HIM, HE
OBVIOUSLY DOESN'T LIKE HER
ATTITUDE AND USES UNNECESSARY
FORCE IS WHAT D.P.S. IS SAYING
THAT HE, YOU KNOW, VIOLATED
PROTOCOL IN THAT STOP.
>> Ifill: IS THERE ANY WAY
LOOKING AT THE VIDEO YOU CAN
DETERMINE -- I KNOW YOU'VE HAD A
CHANCE TO LOOK AT MORE OF IT
THAN WE SHOWED -- THAT SHE DID
ANYTHING ON TAPE THAT WAS
ILLEGAL?
>> NO.
I MEAN, I THINK HIM ASKING HER
TO PUT OUT THE CIGARETTE WAS THE
STRAW THAT BROKE THE CAMEL'S
BACK, IF YOU WILL, AND YOU HEAR
HIM PUT DOWN HIS CLIP BOARD
AFTER SHE REFUSES THAT REQUEST
AND SAID I'M IN MY CAR, WITHIN
MY RIGHTS.
WE'VE TALKED TO EXPERTS SINCE
THE VIDEO CAME OUT YESTERDAY
SAYING SHE IS WITHIN HER RIGHTS
TO BE SMOKING IN HER CAR, BUT
THEY ALSO SAY WHEN A LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER ASKS YOU TO
DO SOMETHING, WHETHER IT'S RIGHT
OR NOT, SOMETIMES IT'S BEST TO
JUST COMPLY AND SHE DOES NOT.
>> Ifill: SO WHEN THE CITY
SAID THEY'RE GOING TO
INVESTIGATE THE OFFICER'S
BEHAVIOR AND INVESTIGATE -- AND
TAKE HIM OFF THE STREET, AS IT
WERE, THAT IS STILL AN OPEN
QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER HIS
BEHAVIOR WAS ACCEPTABLE?
>> IT WAS NOT.
WE HEARD THAT AT YESTERDAY'S
PRESS CONCERNS FROM THE
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY FROM
WHICH HE'S A TROOPER AND
REPRESENTING THAT AGENCY, THEY
TOOK HIM OFF THE STREETS.
HE IS ON ADMINISTRATIVE DUTY,
FROM WHAT I UNDERSTAND IS THE
LATEST, AND THAT HE VIOLATED
PROTOCOL AS FAR AS ALWAYS BEING
PROFESSIONAL AND COURTEOUS.
HE WAS NOT CLEARLY IN THAT
VIDEO.
ALSO, I MEAN, THEY'RE TRAINED TO
DEESCALATE SITUATIONS AND HE
CLEARLY TRIED TO FURTHER
INFURIATE HER.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT THE SECOND
PIECE OF THIS WHICH IS HOW SHE
DIED WHICH WE ALSO DON'T HAVE
THE CLEAR ANSWERS TO AS WE COULD
TELL FROM LISTENING TO THE
FAMILY'S NEWS CONFERENCE
TODAY'S.
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED AFTER SHE WAS ARRESTED,
HOW SHE CAME TO BE IN A CELL BY
HERSELF AND BE IN A POSITION, IF
IT'S TRUE, TO COMMIT SUICIDE?
>> DETAILS RELEASED MONDAY FROM
THE WALLER COUNTY SHERIFF'S
OFFICE AND THE D.A., WE ASKED IF
HER MENTAL HEALTH WAS EVER
EVALUATED, THEY SAY THEY GIVE
ALL INMATES A QUESTIONNAIRE OR
ASK THEM A SERIES OF QUESTIONS
TO TRY TO DETERMINE THAT AND
SAID, YOU KNOW, THEY REALLY
DIDN'T SAY THE RESULTS.
WE ARE HEARING FROM THE
CLOSED-DOOR MEETING FROM AN
OFFICIAL IN THE CLOSED-DOOR
MEETING YESTERDAY THAT,
EVIDENTLY, IN THAT
QUESTIONNAIRE, SHE HAD ATTEMPTED
TO COMMIT SUICIDE PRIOR, I
BELIEVE THE OFFICIAL SAID IT WAS
THE RESULT OF LOSING A BABY.
BUT BACK TO WHERE OR HOW SHE WAS
CATEGORIZED WHEN SHE CAME INTO
THE JAIL, BECAUSE OF THE NATURE
OF CHARGE OF ASSAULT OF A PUBLIC
SER VARIANT, SHE WAS DEEMED HIGH
RISK, SEPARATED FROM OTHER
INMATES AND ENDED UP IN A CELL
ALONE.
>> THAT'S HOW A TRAFFIC STOP
BECAME BEING HELD ON $500 BAIL.
>> RIGHT, THERE WAS A LOT OF
QUESTION.
LATER IN THE VIDEO, THE D.P.S.
RELEASED THE TRAFFIC STOP.
YOU HEAR THE OFFICER TOLD HER HE
TOLD HER SHE WAS UNDER ARREST
AFTER SHE KICKED HIM BUT IT WAS
LIKELY AFTER SHE REFUSED TO PUT
THE CIGARETTE OUT AND GET OUT OF
THE CAR.
>> Ifill: WHY IS THIS TREATED
AS A MURDER INVESTIGATION?
IS THAT AUTOMATIC?
>> MONDAY, THEY MADE IT CLEAR
IT'S BEING WORKED AS A HOMICIDE
INVESTIGATION.
THAT'S BECAUSE THE TEXAS
RANGERS, WHENEVER THERE IS A
PERSON WHO DIES IN POLICE
CUSTODY, WHETHER A JAIL OR
PRISON, THEY JUST TRY TO PUT
EVERYBODY AT EASE BY DOING
EVERYTHING AS FAR AS, YOU KNOW,
IN THIS CASE DOING DNA OF THE
TRASH BAG TO SEE WHO ELSE'S DNA
ASIDE FROM HERS WOULD HAVE BEEN
ON THAT.
OF COURSE, YOU KNOW, WE CAN
EXPECT THAT WE'RE GOING TO SEE
SOME OF THE OTHER OFFICERS DNA
ON THAT JUST BECAUSE SOMEBODY
HAD TO PUT THAT BAG IN THE TRASH
CAN.
>CAN.
>> Ifill: WHAT CAN WE SAY
ABOUT WALLER COUNTY?
THERE A HISTORY?
WATCHING THIS AS OTHER CONFLICTS
UNFOLDED IN THE LAST YEAR AND IT
ALWAYS EMERGES THERE WAS
FRICTION THAT EXISTED BETWEEN
THE BLACK COMMUNITY AND THE
POLICE OFFICERS AT THE TIME OF
THESE FLASHPOINTS, WAS THERE A
HISTORY HERE AS WELL?
>> FROM WHAT I GATHER, YES.
I GOT INTO TOWN SUNDAY AND
ATTENDED A MEMORIAL SERVICE AT
HOPE A.M.E., RIGHT IN FRONT OF
WHERE SHE WAS STOPPED INITIALLY.
PACKED CHURCH, SEVERAL FAITH
LEADERS TOOK A FEW MINUTES TO
SPEAK.
THEY SAID IT WOULD NOT BE
POLITICAL, THAT THEY WOULD JUST
OFFER WELL WISHES FOR THE FAMILY
IN THE TIME OF MOURNING.
BUT AS THE SPEECHES WENT ON, YOU
HEARD WHITE AND AFRICAN-AMERICAN
REVERENDS TAKE TO THE PODIUM AND
TALK ABOUT THE HISTORY OF RACIAL
PROFILING IN THAT COMMUNITY.
YOU HAVE A LARGE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN POPULATION WITH
PRAIRIEVIEW A&M, A PREDOMINANT
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COLLEGE IN THAT
COUNTY.
>> Ifill: ALANA ROCHA OF THE
TEXAS TRIBUNE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: ONE OF THE WORLD'S
LEADING NAZI HUNTERS SET HIS
TARGETS THIS WEEK ON A 90-YEAR
OLD MAN IN DENMARK.
EFRAIM ZURROFF FROM THE SIMON
WIESENTHAL CENTER HAS ACCUSED
DANISH AUTHORITIES OF BEING
RELUCTANT TO ACT AGAINST A
FORMER GUARD WHO SERVED AT A
FORCED LABOR CAMP WHERE HUNDREDS
OF JEWS WERE MURDERED DURING
WORLD WAR II.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MALCOLM BRABANT TAKES AN INSIDE
LOOK AT ZUROFF'S QUEST AND HEARS
FROM THE ACCUSED FIRSTHAND.
PURSUING WAR CRIMINALS AROUND
THE WORLD AND SECURING A STRING
OF SUCCESSFUL PROSECUTIONS,
EFRAIM ZURROFF'S LATEST MISSION
BROUGHT HIM TO COPENHAGEN.
>> I HOPE AN OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT
INVESTIGATION WILL BE INITIATED
AGAINST THIS PERSON WHO SERVED
WITH THE DANISH TROOPS AT S.S.
IN BELARUS AND WAS SERVING AT A
CAMP IN WHICH 90% OF THE JEWS
WHO WERE IN THAT CAMP WAS
MURDERED OR DIED BECAUSE OF
DIFFICULT CONDITIONS DURING THE
PERIOD THAT THE DANISH TROOPS
WERE IN CHARGE OF THE CAMP AND
REGARDING THE CAMP.
>> AND THIS IS THE TARGET, A
NAZI BATTALION OCCUPIED BY THE
GERMANS.
SEZUROFF'S CASE IS GATHER BY AN
HISTORIAN.
THE TWO MEN POURED OVER
DOCUMENTATION AND MAPS TO HAVE
THE CAMP IN BELARUS.
>> EVERY MORNG, TINHERE WAS A
SELECTION TO SEE IF THE JEWS
COULD WORK OR NOT AND THEY WERE
ACTUALLY STARVING SO OFTEN THEY
COULD NOT.
AND IF YOU COULDN'T WORK YOU
WERE TAKEN TO THE GRAVEL PIT AND
SHOT.
>> Reporter: THESE ARE
BELIEVED TO HAVE BEEN SOME OF
THE VICTIMS OF THE BOBRUISK
CAMP, 100 MILES FROM THE
BELARUSIAN CAPITAL MINSK.
THIS IS A PROPAGANDA FILM.
THESE ARE POLISH JEWS
TRANSPORTED FROM THE GHETTO, IN
POOR PHYSICAL SHAPE WHEN THEY
LEFT THE GHETTO.
ACCORDING TO HISTORIANS, 1400
JEWS LOST THEIR LIVES IN THIS
CAMP.
>> THEY WERE GUARDS.
THEY GUARDED THESE JEWS IN THIS
CAMP IN THE PERIOD OF 1942 AND
1943.
>> Reporter: HISTORIAN AND
COAL AUTHOR STRADER SAYS THERE
IS EVIDENCE GUARDS CARRIED OUT
ATROCITIES AGAINST JEWISH SLAVE
LABORERS, LINKING THE DANE AT
THE CENTER OF THE CASE.
>> IT'S JUST TO FILE CHARGES
AGAINST A GUARD IN AN
ANNIHILATION CAMP WHICH IS A
SMALL ONE, NOT VERY WELL KNOWN,
BUT YOU COULD SAY THE ATROCITIES
WERE JUST AS BAD AS AUSCHWITZ.
>> ZUROFF WENT TO A DOWNTOWN
POLICE STATION TO FILE HIS
COMPLAINT AND URGE THE DANISH
AUTHORITIES TO EXPAND THEIR
INVESTIGATION.
HE BELIEVES THIS CASE IS THE TIP
OF THE ICEBERG AND THERE MAY BE
UP TO 30 DANISH NAZIS STILL
ALIVE WHO ARE GUILTY OF WAR
CRIMES.
>> OKAY, FIRST OF ALL, WE HANDED
IN QUITE A BIT OF INFORMATION.
TO BE PERFECTLY HONEST, I'M NOT
SO EXPERT IN THE WORKINGS OF THE
DANISH MINISTRY TO BE ABLE TO
SAY I AM CONFIDENT.
I CAN SAY WE'LL DO WHATEVER WE
CAN DO TRY AND ENCOURAGE A
SERIOUS INVESTIGATION, AN
IN-DEPTH INVESTIGATION, THE GOOD
GUYS AGAINST THE BAD GUYS.
>> 19-YEAR-OLD HERMAN INVITED US
IN TO HE HIS SIDE OF THE STORY.
HE SAID HIS NAZI UNCLE PRESSURED
HIM TO JOIN THE FREE CORPS.
HE ADMITS PATROLLING THE CAMP
PERIMETER AS A YOUNG MAN.
HIS DRAWING IS DIFFERENT FROM
THE HISTORIAN'S MAP.
HE INSISTS HE COMMITTED NO
CRIME.
>> THE GERMANS TREATED THE JEWS
VERY BADLY WHICH WE COULD NOT
HELP BUT SEE, BUT WE HAD NO
INFLUENCE OVER IT.
WHEN YOU WERE 17 YEARS OLD, WHAT
CAN YOU DO?
I CAN TELL YOU IT WAS UNPLEASANT
TO WATCH.
THEY BEAT THEM UP WITH BATS.
BUT I HAD NEVER SEEN THE GERMANS
KILL JEWS.
I DID SEE SOME OF THE JEWS LYING
DEAD.
>> A COMPLAINT HAS BEEN FILED
AGAINST YOU.
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THAT.
>> YOU KNOW WHAT?
I AM 90 YEARS OLD.
WHAT THE HELL ARE THEY GOING TO
DO?
EVEN IF THEY PROSECUTE ME,
BEFORE THEY EVEN GET STARTED ON
THAT, I AM GOING TO BE DEAD AND
BURIED.
I HAVE NEVER EVEN TOUCHED THE
HAIR ON THE HEAD OF ANY JEW.
IN MY OPINION, A WAR CRIMINAL IS
SOMEONE WHO GOES AFTER
CIVILIANS.
I HAVE NEVER DONE ANYTHING TO
ANY CIVILIANS.
WHAT DOES APP 17-YEAR-OLD KNOW
ABOUT POLITICS?
NOTHING.
HAD I NOT LIVED WITH THAT UNCLE,
MAY HE REST IN PEACE, HAD I NOT
LIVED WITH HIM, IT WOULD NEVER
HAVE HAPPENED.
THEN PERHAPS I WOULD HAVE BEEN
IN THE RESISTANCE.
>> Reporter: LAST WEEK OSCAR
GRONING, 94, KNOWN AS BOOKKEEPER
OF AUSCHWITZ WAS SENTENCED TO
FOUR YEARS IN PRISON.
HE COUNTED THE BANK NOTES.
THIS WAS TO HAVE BEEN ONE OF THE
LAST NAZI TRIALS.
EFRAIM ZURROFF BELIEVES IN
PURSUING NAZIS TO THE GRAVE.
>> THE PAGEANTS OF TIME DOESN'T
DIMINISH GUILT OF THE KILLERS,
SECOND, THEY'RE NOT TURNED INTO
RIGHTEOUS GENTILES.
THIRD IS OUR OBLIGATION TO THE
VICTIM TO TRY AND FIND THE
PEOPLE WHO TURNED INNOCENT MEN,
WOMEN AND CHILDREN INTO VICTIMS
SIMPLY BECAUSE THEY WERE ENEMIES
OF THE THIRD REICH.
ALSO, A CONTINUING SEARCH FOR
THESE PEOPLE IS INDICATION OF
THE SERIOUSNESS AND HORROR OF
HOLOCAUST CRIMES.
THE TRIALS ARE IMPORTANT TO
FIGHT AGAINST HOLOCAUST DENIAL
AND DISTORTION AND, QUITE
FRANKLY, THESE ARE THE LAST
PEOPLE ON EARTH WHO DESERVE ANY
SYMPATHY BECAUSE THEY HAVE
ABSOLUTELY NO SYMPATHY FOR THE
VICTIMS.
>> Reporter: IF THIS CASE WERE
TRIED IN GERMANY THERE WOULD BE
MORE CHANCE OF SCESSUC BECAUSE
THERE GUARDS OF DEATH CAMPS CAN
BE PROSECUTED.
IN DENMARK, THE CRITERIA IS
DIFFERENT.
ACCORDING TO LEADING LAW
EXPERTS, BEING A WITNESS TO A
CRIME DOESN'T MAKE A PERSON AN
ACCESSORY.
ONE LAWYER SAID SHE DOUBTED THE
CASE WOULD GO TO TRIAL BECAUSE
OF LACK OF EYEWITNESSES, BECAUSE
OF RASMUSSEN'S AGE AT THE TIME
AND THE DNEERA WAR THYME
GOVERNMENT WHICH COLLABORATED
WITH THE GOVERNMENT ENCOUREDAG
YOUTH TO JOIN THE NAZI
BATTALIONS.
HELMUTH LIEF RASMUSSEN'S SECRET
PAST HAS BEEN EXPOSED AND ONE OF
HIS BIGGEST FEARS IS HIS JEWISH
FRIENDS WILL NOW DISOWN HIM.
FOR THE PBS "NewsHour",
MALCOLM BRABANT IN COPENHAGEN.
>> Ifill: ALSO AHEAD ON THE
NEWSHOUR: THE BENEFIOFT
TARGETING ALZHEIMER'S AT EARLY
STAGES, TRAINING TODAY'S
TEACHERS TO BE BETTER EDUCATORS
AND OUR VISIT WITH THIS YEAR'S
PULITZER PRIZE-WINNING POET.
NOW A CAUTIONARY TALE OF A
DIFFERENT KIND OF COMPUTER-
HACKING THAT YOU'LL WANT TO SEE.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY
FROM OUR NEW YORK STUDIOS.
>> IT'S NOT FUN TO HAVE YOUR TWO
TON S.U.V.'S BRAKES HACKED JUST
AS YOU'RE PARKING IN FRONT OF A
DITCH.
>> Sreenivasan: WRITER ANDY
GREENBERG FOUND THAT OUT THE
HARD WAY.
FOR A STORY ON wired.com, HE
DECIDED TO BE A WILLING VICTIM
OF "CAR-HACKING" BY TWO
RESEARCHERS-- CHARLIE MILLER AND
CHRIS VALASEK.
THE TWO-AND-A-HALF TON GUINEA
PIG: A 2014 JEEP CHEROKEE, THAT
GREENBERG DROVE ON A ST. LOUIS
HIGHWAY.
>> REMEMBER, ANDY, NO MATTER
WHAT HAPPENS, DON'T PANIC.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT EASIER SAID
THAN DONE: WITHOUT WARNING, AND
FROM MILES AWAY, THEY BLASTED
THE AIR VENTS, AND STARTED
BLARING THE MUSIC.
>> I CAN'T TURN IT DOWN!
>> Sreenivasan: AFTER TURNING ON
THE WINDSHIELD WIPERS AND WIPER
FLUID, THEY KILLED THE ENGINE,
FORCING HIM TO BRING THE CAR TO
A HALT ON THE HIGHWAY, AS CARS
AND SEMIS SPED BY.
>> I'M GOING TO PULL OVER,
BECAUSE I HAVE P.T.S.D.
>> Sreenivasan: THE HACK IS
POSSIBLE THROUGH AN INTERNET-
CONNECTED SYSTEM, CALLED "U-
CONNECT", THAT CONTROLS THE
ENTERTAINMENT AND NAVIGATION,
AND ENABLES COMMUNICATION
THROUGH PHONE CALLS AND WI-FI.
BELOW A CERTAIN SPEED, HACKERS
CAN EVEN CONTROL THE JEEP'S
STEERING AS LONG AS IT'S IN
REVERSE, THEY CAN ADJUST THE
LOCKS, AND DISABLE THE BRAKES.
MANY AUTOMAKERS NOW PRODUCE
VEHICLES THAT FUNCTION LIKE
SMARTPHONES ON WHEELS, BUT THAT
CONVENIENCE ALSO ALLOWS HACKERS
TO NOW ENGAGE IN WIRELESS CAR-
JACKING.
MILLER AND VALASEK HAVE BEEN
RESEARCHING CAR HACKING FOR
YEARS, AND FOUND THE JEEP
CHEROKEE TO BE THE MOSTACKA HBLE
MODEL.
>> THESE CARS HAD UNITS EXPOSED
TO A PARTICULAR SERVICE THAT
PROBABLY THEY DIDN'T WANT TO.
IT LETS YOU DO THINGS LIKE QUERY
IT FOR INFORMATION LIKE THE GPS
OR OTHER THINGS, BUT IT ALSO
JUST LETS YOU RUN COMMANDS.
>> Sreenivasan: MILLER AND
VALASEK ALERTED CHRYSLER,
SHARING THEIR RESEARCH FOR
MONTHS.
THE COMPANY, HOWEVER, IS WARY OF
THIS DISCLOSURE.
>> WE WANT TO RELEASE THIS
INFORMATION BECAUSE MORE PEOPLE
LIKE US NEED TO BE FOCUSED ON
THIS PROBLEM.
>> Sreenivasan: JUST YESTERDAY,
SENATORS ED MARKEY AND RICHARD
BLUMENTHAL INTRODUCED
LEGISLATION THAT REQUIRES CARS
SOLD IN THE U.S. TO MEET
STANDARDS OF PROTECTION AGAINST
DIGITAL ATTACKS.
MORE ABOUT THE VULNERABILITIES
AND THE CONCERNS AROUND ALL
THIS.
ANDY GREENBERG JOINS ME NOW.
WHY DID YOU DO THE HACK?
>> WELL, THIS WAS ALL ACTUALLY
THE WORK OF CHARLI CHARLIE MILLD
CHRIS VALASEK, THE TWO
RESEARCHERS.
THEY HAVE BEEN TRYING TO DO THIS
FOR YEARS TO GAIN ACCESS TO A
WIRELESS ACCESS REMOTE VEHICLE.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THEY'VE
DONE THAT AND THEY NAMED THE
AUTOMAKER, DETAILED SOME OF HOW
THEY THEY DID IT AND THEY'LL
TALK ABOUT IT AT A CONFERENCE,
AND SHOW HOW IT IS DONE SO
RESEARCHERS CAN TEST IT OUT.
ALL OF IT IS MEANT TO SEND A
MESSAGE TO PRESSURE THE CAR
INDUSTRY TO SOLVE THESE
PROBLEMS, TO TAKE SECURITY
VULNERABILITY SERIOUSLY.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW EASY OR
DIFFICULT IS IT?
SHOULD WE BE CONCERNED THERE'S
400,000 CARS WITH THIS SOFTWARE
INSIDE IT?
>> EVERYBODY WHO HAS THIS ONE
COMPUTER U CONNECT IN THEIR
DASHBOARD NEEDS TO DOWNLOAD THE
PATCH QUIETLY RELEASED LAST
WEEK.
GUT IT FROM THEIR COMPUTER, PUT
IT ON A USB DRIVE AND PROTECT
THEMSELVES.
BUT IT'S A QUESTION WHETHER
SOMEONE COULD CREATE A NEW
HACKING TECHNIQUE.
IT'S POSSIBLE BUT NOT EASY.
BOTH ARE BRILLIANT HACKERS.
ONE A FORMER N.S.A. ANALYST.
I WOULDN'T EXPECT A KID IN A
BASEMENT TO COME UP WITH A NEW
TECTECHNIQUE BUT WITH A TARGET T
THERE, ANYONE CAN AT LEAST MESS
WITH THE DASHBOARD FUNCTIONS AND
THAT'S MISCHIEF ENOUGH.
>> Sreenivasan: MY PHONE CAN
GET AN UPDATE FROM GOIN GOOGLE R
APPLE, BUT CHRYSLER IS NOT
AUTOMATICALLY UPDATING THE CARS.
>> YOU HAVE TO DO IT YOURSELF OR
TAKE IT TO THE DEALERSHIP.
SOME CARMAKERS ALREADY DO OVER
THE AIR UPDATES.
THEY DON'T AUTOMATICALLY UPDATE
BUT YOU CAN DO IT FROM THE CURED
ITSELF IN THE CAR.
IN FACT, EVERY AUTOMAKER
PRACTICALLY IS MOVING TOWARD
OVER THE AIR UPDATES.
THEY KNEW THIS IS A FIX THAT
NEEDS TO HAPPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: ALSO,
AUTOMAKERS ARE MOVING TOWARD
HAVING GREATER AMOUNTS OF
TECHNOLOGY IN CARS.
BASICALLY, THESE Smartphones
ON WHEELS.
WHEN WE THINK OF THE INTERNET,
EVERYTHING'S GETTING SO
CONNECTED, DOES THAT JUST MEAN
EVERYTHING IS ALREADY SO MUCH
MORE HACKABLE?
>> WHEN I TALKED TO SECURITY
EXPERTS ABOUT THE WHOLE
INDUSTRY, THEY SAY THAT, YES,
THE INDUSTRY I IS TRYING TO SOLE
THE PROBLEM, BUT THINGS ARE
GETTING WORSE FASTER THAN
THEY'RE GETTING BETTER AND
THAT'S BECAUSE THE AUTO INDUSTRY
WANTS TO ADD THE FEATURES.
THEY'RE COMPETING WITH
NAVIGATION, SAFETY AND
ENTERTAINMENT AND THOSE THINGS
ALSO PROVIDE A NICE, MONTHLY
REVENUE STREAM FOR THE CELLULAR
SERVICE.
SO ONE OF THE FEATURES IS ALSO A
POTENTIALLY HACKABLE BUG, TOO.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S ALSO
THE PIECE OF CURRENT LEGISLATION
PROPOSED YESTERDAY BY A COUPLE
OF SENATORS, BUT WHEN IS THERE A
SCENARIO WHEN THE LAW AND
TECHNOLOGY ARE ON THE SAME
PLAYING FIELD?
SOMETIMES IT SEEMS THE LAW IS
TEN YEARS BEHIND CATCHING UP TO
TECHNOLOGY TO TRY TO LEGISLATE
IT OR REGULATE IT.
>> I THINK THERE ARE LEGAL
STANDARDS FOR THE SAFETY OF
AUTOMOBILES.
THEY HAVE TO HAVE SEAT BELTS,
THEY HAVE TO HAVE AIR BAGS, YOU
KNOW, SO THIS IS KIND OF THE
MODERN EQUIVALENT.
IT WILL BE, OF COURSE, VERY
DIFFICULT TO LEGISLATE SOMETHING
THIS COMPLEX.
THIS ISN'T JUST A SAFETY ISSUE.
IT'S KIND OF A CAT AND MOUSE
GAME WITH A WHOLE WORLD OF
HACKERS, AND IT HAS TO BE A
DYNAMIC KIND OF SOLUTION TO A
VERY DYNAMIC PROBLEM.
SO, YOU KNOW, IT'S NOT ENTIRELY
CLEAR THAT LEGISLATION CAN FIX
IT BUT NHE AUTO INDUSTRY NEEDS
TO WAKE UP THROUGH CONSUMER
PRESSURE OR SELF-REGULATION OR
CONGRESS TAKING ACTION,
SOMETHING NEEDS TO HAPPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: HACKING SEEMS
TO FOLLOW EVERY ONLINE LEAP
FORWARD.
BANK ACCOUNTS HAVE BEEN HACKED,
CREDIT CARD COMPANIES,
TRANSACTIONS FROM MULTIPLE
VENDORS.
HAVING YOUR CAR HACKED, WHEN YOU
ARE DRIVING THAT CAR, WHAT WAS
GOING THROUGH YOUR HEAD WHEN YOU
BASICALLY LOST CONTROL STEP BY
STEP?
>> WELL, IT'S INCREDIBLY
UNNERVING.
IF YOU'VE DRIVEN FOR SOME NUMBER
OF YEARS AND YOU'VE COME TO
ASSUME THAT THE PEDAL DOES
SOMETHING AND THE STEERING WHEEL
DOES SOMETHING AND THE REALIZE
IT'S JUST KIND OF A FALLIBLE
MACHINE THAT CAN EVEN BE
CONTROLLED BY SOMEONE ELSE OR
WHAT FEELS LIKE A VIRTUAL,
INVISIBLE FORCE SOMEWHERE FAR
AWAY, IT DEFINITELY PRODUCES A
UNIQUE KIND OF ANXIETY.
>> Sreenivasan: WAS IT THE
SMARTEST IDEA TO BE ON A FREEWAY
IN ST. LOUIS?
>> IN RETROSPECT, MAYBE NOT.
I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT THE GUYS
WOULD DO.
THEY JUST TOLD ME TO DRIVE ON
THE HIGHWAY.
AT FIRST THEY WERE JUST MESSING
WITH THE RADIO AND WINDSHIELD
WIPERS.
WHEN THEY CUT THE TRANSMISSION,
I WAS SHOCKED MYSELF AND I THINK
PROBABLY ALL OF US -- THEY
DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THERE WASN'T
GOING TO BE A SHOULDER AT THE
POINT WHEN THEY DID IT, TO THE
HIGHWAY, SO MAYBE ALL OF US
WOULD HAVE CHOSEN TO DO IT ON A
CLOSED COURSE IF WE WOULD HAVE
KNOWN HOW IT WOULD HAVE GONE,
BUT IN THE END IT WAS IMPORTANT
TO SHOW HOW SCARY IT COULD BE.
NO ONE WAS HURT AND WE HAVE AN
EXAMPLE OF HOW DANGEROUS THIS
VULNERABILITY IS AND SENDS AN
IMPORTANT MESSAGE.
>> Sreenivasan: ANDY GREENBERG
OF WIRED, THANKS SO MUCH FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: LET'S LOOK CLOSER
AT SOME INTERESTING NEWS OUT
TODAY FROM A MAJOR CONFERENCE ON
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE HERE IN
WASHINGTON.
TWO DRUG COMPANIES, ELI LILLY
AND BIOGEN, ANNOUNCED NEW
PROGRESS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF
THE FIRST DRUGS TO SLOW THE
PROGRESSION OF THE DISEASE
RATHER THAN SIMPLY ALLEVIATING
SYMPTOMS.
BOTH DRUGS TARGET THE BUILDUP OF
AMYLOID PLAQUES, WHICH MANY
BELIEVE CONTRIBUTE TO THE
DISEASE.
RESEARCHERS FOUND THE DRUGS
HELPED REDUCE COGNITIVE LOSS IN
PATIENTS WHO HAD MILD SYMPTOMS.
BUT SOME OBSERVERS IN THE FIELD
SAY THE IMPROVEMENTS FOR
PATIENTS ARE TOO SMALL AND
UNCERTAIN.
HERE TO DISCUSS THESE
DEVELOPMENTS IS KEITH FARGO,
DIRECTOR OF SCIENTIFIC PROGRAMS
AND OUTREACH FOR THE ALZHEIMER'S
ASSOCIATION.
KEITH FARGO, WELCOME TO THE
PROGRAM.
SO SOME PROMISING NEWS.
LET'S TAKE THE DRUGS ONE BY ONE.
THEY'RE DIFFICULT TO PRONOUNCE.
SOLONAZONAB IS THE FIRST ONE.
WHAT ARE THE FINDINGS IN
CONNECTION WITH IT.
>> FOR THE FIRST TIME A DRUG
COMPANY VOTERRING THE RESULTS OF
A STUDY SHOWING THEIR DRUG MAY
ACTUALLY SLOW THE PROGRESSION OF
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE IN THE
BRAIN.
WHEN PEOPLE THINK ABOUT
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE THEY
NORMALLY THINK OF COGNITIVE
SYMPTOMS, MEMORY LOSS,
ET CETERA, BUT ALZHEIMER'S
DISEASE AT A CORE LEVEL IS A
UNIVERSALLY FATAL DISEASE OF THE
BRAIN AND THE CURRENTLY
AVAILABLE TREATMENTS FOR
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE DO NOTHING
TO SLOW DOWN THE PROGRESSION OF
THAT DISEASE.
THEY ONLY REALLY TREAT COGNITIVE
SYMPTOMS AND ONLY FOR A PERIOD
OF TIME, AND THESE TWO NEW
POTENTIAL MEDICATIONS LOOK LIKE
THEY MAY ACTUALLY SLOW THE
PROGRESSION OF THE UNDERLYING
DISEASE.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT IS IN
THIS DRUG AND WHAT DOES IT DO TO
THE BRAIN?
>> SO THIS OR ANY OTHER DRUG
WE'LL DISCUSS ARE ANTIBODIES
AGAINST A PROTEIN IN THE BRAIN
CALLED AMYLOID.
YOU MAY HAVE HEARD OF SENILE OR
AMYLOID PLAQUES, BOTH ATTACK THE
PROTEIN THAT MAKES UP THE
PLAQUE.
>> Woodruff: AND DESTROY IT?
EXACTLY, MAY HELP IT STOP
FROM CLUMPING IN THE FIRST PLACE
OR HELP CLEAR IT OUT OF THE
BRAIN.
SO THE IDEA IS TO SLOW DOWN THE
FORMATION OF THE PLAQUES.
>> THE SECOND DRUG, WHAT DOES IT
DO?
>> THEY'RE SOMEWHAT SIMILAR IN
TERMS OF THE FACT THEY'RE BOTH
ANTIBODIES.
THEY TARGET DIFFERENT PARTS OF
PROTEINS, SO WE DON'T FULLY
UNDERSTAND ALL THE MECHANISM YET
BURKS THEY MAY WORK A LITTLE
DIFFERENTLY ALTHOUGH AT THE END
OF THE DAY THEY'RE BOTH
ANTIBODIES AND TARGET THE
AMYLOID THAT MAKES UP THE
PLAQUE.
>> Woodruff: WE ARE HEARING AS
WE SAID IN THE INTRODUCTION FROM
SOME OTHER RESEARCHERS THAT IT'S
STILL EARLY, THERE'S NOT A BIG
ENOUGH SAMPLE, WHAT ARE YOU AND
THE OTHERS AT THE ALZHEIMER'S
ASSOCIATION SAY?
>> THOSE ARE ALL VERY VALID
CONCERNS WE SHARE.
THESE ARE EXCITING RESULTS WE'VE
SEEN AT THE INTERNATIONAL
CONFERENCES THIS WEEK, BUT
YOU'RE NOT -- WITH DRUG
DEVELOPMENT, YOU'RE NOT DONE
TILL YOU'RE DONE AND THE FACT IS
THE TRIAL FOR ONE DRUG IS A
PHASE ONE TRIAL WHICH I THINK
LESS THAN 200 PEOPLE WERE IN THE
TRIAL, AND THE TRIAL FOR THE
OTHER IS 3,000 AND THAT'S A
PHASE THREE TRIAL, BUT YOU HAVE
TO REPEAT IT AND MAKE SURE WHAT
YOU SAW THE FIRST TIME AROUND
YOU SEE AGAIN IN THE SECOND
STUDY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT HAPPENS NEXT
WITH REGARD TO BOTH OF THESE
DRUGS.
>> SOLONAZONAB IS ALREADY BEING
STUDIED IN THE SECOND PHASE
THREE STUDY AS WE SPEAK AND WE
SHOULD SEE THE RESULTS IN
PROBABLY 18 MONTHS TO TWO YEARS.
THE OTHER DRUG, THE COMPANY WHO
MAKES THAT DRUG JUST LAUNCHED
TWO LARGE PHASE THREE TRIALS AND
WE SHOULD SEE THE RESULTS OF
THOSE IN TWO TO THREE YEARS.
>> Woodruff: KEITH FARGO, FOR
PEOPLE OUT THERE WHO HAVE A
FAMILY MEMBER, FOR SOMEONE
WORRIED ABOUT HAVING ALZHEIMER'S
THEMSELVES, IF PROVEN EFFECTIVE,
WHEN CAN THEY HAVE ACCESS TO ONE
OF THESE?
>> FOR BOTH OF THESE DRUGS, AT
LEAST 18 MONTHS TO TWO YEARS
BEFORE THEY'RE AVAILABLE FROM
YOUR DOCTOR.
>> Woodruff: SO A WHILE.
YES.
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER
INTERESTING NEWS IF NOT
PROMISING WE WERE HEARING ABOUT
YESTERDAY IS THAT THE FINDINGS
ABOUT WOMEN WITH ALZHEIMER'S
MEANS NOT ONLY ARE THERE MANY
MORE WOMEN THAN MEN WHO HAVE
ALZHEIMER'S, BUT THAT THE
PROGRESSION OF THE DISEASE IS
MUCH FASTER.
WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THAT?
>> WELL, I WOULD ACTUALLY SAY
THAT IT IS PROMISING IN THAT I
THINK IT TELLS US THAT WE'RE
LEARNING MORE ABOUT THE DISEASE.
SO AS YOU MENTIONED, ALZHEIMER'S
DISEASE IS MUCH MORE COMMON IN
WOMEN THAN MEN.
WOMEN ARE ESSENTIALLY TWICE AS
LIKELY TO HAVE ALZHEIMER'S
DISEASE THAN MEN.
THE CONVENTIONAL WISDOM FOR MANY
YEARS IS IT WAS SIMPLY BECAUSE
WOMEN LIVE LONGER AND AGE IS THE
LARGEST RISK FACTOR FOR
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE.
BUT THERE ARE OTHER FACTORS
OTHER THAN LONGEVITY.
>> Woodruff: ARE THERE
THEORIES ABOUT WHY?
>> THERE ARE, THE FIRST THING
THAT SPRINGS TO MIND IS THERE
MAY BE HORMONAL DIFFERENCES.
THEY MAY BE SIMPLISTIC.
CERTAINLY THERE ARE DIFFERENT
LIFE COURSES FOR MEN AND WOMEN
ESPECIALLY MEN AND WOMEN WHO ARE
AT THE AGE TO BE AT THE HIGHEST
RISK FOR ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE
NOW.
CERTAINLY IF YOU THINK ABOUT
JAKESLE OPPORTUNITIES IN THE
PAST AND HOW DIFFERENT THEY WERE
FOR MEN AND WOMEN, WE KNOW THAT
EDUCATION IS A RISK FACTOR -- OR
LOW EDUCATION IS A RISK FACTOR
FOR ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE.
CERTAINLY OCCUPATIONAL
OPPORTUNITIES HAVE BEEN
DIFFERING AS WELL AND WE KNOW
HIGH-COMPLEXITY OCCUPATIONS ARE
PROTECTIVE AGAINST ALZHEIMER'S
DISEASE.
THERE ARE ALSO POTENTIALLY
GENETIC DIFFERENCES BETWEEN MEN
AND WOMEN THAT COULD EXPLAIN
THIS, TOO.
>> THE XX CHROMESOMES.
EXACTLY.
>> Woodruff: KEITH FARGO WITH
THE ALZHEIMER'S ASSOCIATIONS.
WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: IT'S LIKELY THAT
EVERYONE WATCHING HAS SPENT TIME
IN A CLASSROOM, EITHER AS A
STUDENT OR A TEACHER.
AT 3.1 MILLION, SCHOOL TEACHERS
MAKE UP ONE OF THE LARGEST
PORTIONS OF THE AMERICAN
WORKFORCE.
AND BECAUSE TEACHER TURNOVER IS
VERY HIGH, THERE ARE PROBABLY
EVEN MORE FORMER TEACHERS.
THE NEWSHOUR'S SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT FOR EDUCATION,
JOHN MERROW, HAS THE STORY.
>> Reporter: IT'S GRADUATION DAY
FOR STUDENTS AT MONTCLAIR STATE
UNIVERSITY, WHICH HAS ONE OF THE
LARGEST SCHOOLS OF EDUCATION IN
NEW JERSEY.
>> IT GIVES ME PLEASURE TO STATE
THAT 665 MEMBERS OF THIS CLASS
ARE CERTIFIED AND QUALIFIED TO
TEACH IN THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS OF
THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY.
>> Reporter: THESE GRADUATES ARE
AMONG THE MORE THAN 200,000
WOMEN AND MEN WHO'VE JUST
COMPLETED TEACHER PREPARATION
PROGRAMS ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
>> I'M TRYING TO FIND A JOB IN
ELEMENTARY EDUCATION K-6.
>> I'M A MATH MAJOR, WANT TO BE
A MATH TEACHER.
>> CERTIFIED IN SPECIAL
EDUCATION, I WOULD LIKE A
TEACHING JOB ANYWHERE IN NEW
JERSEY.
>> Reporter: IS THIS A GOOD TIME
TO BECOME A TEACHER?
SALARIES HAVEN'T KEPT UP WITH
INFLATION, TENURE IS UNDER
ATTACK, AND STANDARDIZED TEST
SCORES ARE BEING USED TO FIRE
TEACHERS.
RICHARD INGERSOLL OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA SAYS
TEACHING ATTRACTS A CERTAIN KIND
OF PERSON.
>> WE HAVE THESE SURVEYS THAT
ASK PEOPLE, COLLEGE SENIORS, YOU
KNOW, WHAT DO YOU WANT OUT OF A
CAREER?
S ITI MONEY, IS IT PRESTIGE, IS
IT SECURITY, IS IT PROBLEM
SOLNG, VIIS IT INTELLECTUAL
CHALLENGE, IS IT DOING GOOD AND
HELPING PEOPLE?
>> IF IT WASN'T FOR THE PEOPLE
IN MY SCHOOLS I WLD HOUAVE NEVER
HAVE GRADUATED OR BEEN HERE.
SO I WANT TO BE IN THE SYSTEMS
TO HELP OTHER CHILDREN.
>> I'M NOT REALLY LOOKING FOR
WEALTH OR RICHES OR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT.
>> IT'S NOT THAT THEY, YOU KNOW,
WANT TO LIVE ON A LOW SALARY OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
IT'S THAT THEIR MAIN DRIVER IS
TO FEEL THAT THEY CAN MAKE--
MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
>> Reporter: FIRST, HOWEVER,
THEY NEED JOBS.
>> IF YOU WANT TO BE A TEACHER
IN THE FALL GIVE ME A HAND.
IF YOU HAVE A TEACHING JOB IN
SEPTEMBER RAISE YOUR HAND.
>> NOT YET.
>> IF YOU HAVE A TEACHING JOB
RAISE YOUR HAND.
ONE, ONE HAND.
WOW.
NOT YET?
>> APPLYING.
WE'RE ALL APPLYING.
>> Reporter: NATIONWIDE, JOB
PROSPECTS FOR TEACHERS VARY
WIDELY BY STATE, SCHOOL DISTRICT
AND SUBJECT MATTER.
IN THIS PART OF NEW JERSEY JOBS
ARE HARD TO FIND.
SCHOOL DISTRICTS SURROUNDING
MONTCLAIR TOLD US THEY'RE
RECEIVING THOUSANDS OF
APPLICATIONS FOR JUST A FEW
DOZEN TEACHING POSITIONS.
>> IT'S VERY COMPETITIVE.
>> THERE'S ENOUGH OF US
GRADUATING, NOT ENOUGH JOBS.
>> Reporter: THIS ISN'T NEW.
BETWEEN 2010 AND 2012, MONTCLAIR
STATE GRADUATED 555 ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL TEACHERS, BUT ONLY ABOUT
HALF HAVE FOUND JOBS IN NEW
JERSEY.
>> IT'S A LITTLE TOUGH RIGHT
NOW, BUT I'M HOPING I'M GONNA
GET SOMETHING SOON.
>> Reporter: IF AND WHEN THEY DO
GET HIRED, CHANCES ARE AT LEAST
40% OF THEM WILL LEAVE TEACHING
IN THE FIRST FIVE YEARS.
WHY DO THEY LEAVE?
>> LOTS OF REASONS.
BUT THE BIGGEST SET OF REASONS
HAS TO DO WITH THE QUALITY, THE
CALIBER OF THE JOB.
IT'S THE AMOUNT OF SUPPORT, IT'S
THE AMOUNT OF STUDENT DISCIPLINE
AND BEHAVIORAL PROBLEMS IN THE
BUILDING.
IT'S HOW MUCH SAY TEACHERS HAVE
IN THE DECISIONS IN THE BUILDING
THAT AFFECT THEIR JOBS.
DO THEY HAVE INPUT AND VOICE?
AND, I'M SORRY TO SAY THAT THE
MORE POOR SCHOOLS, THE URBAN
SCHOOLS HAVE HIGHER TEACHER
TURNOVER THAN DO THE MORE
AFFLUENT SCHOOLS AND THE
SUBURBAN SCHOOLS.
>> Reporter: STANDING LINE WITH
ALL THESE YOUNG SOON TO BE
GRADUATES, I NOTICED MOST OF
THEM WERE WOMEN.
>> YES, THE TEACHING
OCCUPATION'S BECOMING MORE
FEMALE DOMINATED.
IT WAS ALWAYS A FEMALE
OCCUPATION.
PEOPLE THOUGHT THAT WAS GONNA
DECLINE IN THE LAST 20, 30 YEARS
AS ALL KINDS OF MALE-DOMINATED
OCCUPATIONS, PROFESSIONS, HAVE
OPENED UP TO WOMEN.
HOWEVER, THE OPPOSITE HAS
HAPPENED.
TEACHING IS BECOMING EVEN MORE
FEMALE AND WE'VE NOW PASSED THE
THREE-QUARTER'S MARK.
>> THERE ARE NOT TOO MANY
ELEMENTARY MEN IN THE FIELD
UNLESS YOU ARE A PHYSICAL
EDUCATION, ART OR STUFF LIKE
THAT.
>> THERE'S LARGE NUMBERS OF
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS IN WHICH
THERE'S NOT A SINGLE MALE
TEACHER.
THIS IS A BIG CONCERN.
>> Reporter: BUT THERE'S BEEN A
HUGE EFFORT TO TRY TO RECRUIT
MEN.
>> THAT HAS NEVER SUCCEEDED.
>> Reporter: THE STUDENT
POPULATION IS CHANGING
DRAMATICALLY.
20 YEARS AGO, 65% OF STUDENTS
WERE WHITE.
TODAY, 49%.
TO KEEP UP, SCHOOL DISTRICTS
HAVE BEEN RECRUITING MINORITY
TEACHERS TO WORK IN HIGH POVERTY
SCHOOLS WITH LARGE NUMBERS OF
MINORITY STUDENTS.
>> THE NUMBERS OF MINORITY
TEACHERS HAS MORE THAN DOUBLED.
BUT THE CATCH IS THAT THOSE
SCHOOLS AND DISTRICTS OFTEN ARE
LESS ATTRACTIVE PLACES TO WORK.
AND AS A RESULT, MINORITY
TEACHERS HAVE DISTINCTLY HIGHER
QUIT RATES THAN DO NON-MINORITY
TEACHERS.
>> Reporter: SO-- MINORITY
TEACHERS ARE MORE LIKELY TO
TEACH IN...?
>> IN HIGH MINORITY AND URBAN
SCHOOLS, YES.
>> Reporter: AND MORE LIKELY TO
LEAVE TEACHING?
>> YES.
IN FACT, MINORITY TEACHERS IN
AFFLUENT SCHOOLS, THEY DON'T
QUIT AT ANY HIGHER RATES THAN--
THAN-- THAN THE WHITE TEACHERS.
NO, IT'S-- IT'S-- BOILS DOWN TO
THE WORKING CONDITIONS IN THESE
PLACES.
SO THE DATA TELLS WE NEED TO
START PAYING FAR MORE ATTENTION
TO THE RETENTION, NOT JUST
RECRUITMENT, BUT ALSO RETENTION
OF MINORITY TEACHERS.
>> Reporter: AND SO, EFFORTS TO
RECRUIT MINORITY TEACHERS HAVE
RESULTED IN ONLY A 4% GAIN OVER
THE PAST 25 YEARS.
THE TEACHING FORCE REMAINS MORE
THAN 80% WHITE AND MOST OF THE
NEW HIRES ARE YOUNG.
>> AND YOU HAVE SCHOOLS NOW
WHERE, YOU KNOW, THERE'S HARDLY
ANY VETERANS AROUND.
THE MOST SENIOR TEACHER IS
SOMEONE IN THEIR FIFTH OR SIXTH
YEAR.
SO FROM A TAXPAYER VIEWPOINT
THERE'S MAYBE A BENEFIT TO THIS.
>> WE ARE FRESH OUTTA SCHOOL, WE
ARE FIRST YEAR AND THEY DON'T
HAVE TO PAY US AS MUCH.
>> ON THE OTHER HAND, WE--
COMMON SENSE TELLS US AND ALSO
WE HAVE RESEARCH SHOWING THAT
EXPERIENCE COUNTS, THAT
TEACHING'S A COMPLEX JOB,
THERE'S A LOT OF DIFFERENT
ASPECTS.
NOT JUST SIMPLY RAISING STUDENTS
TEST SCORES.
AND THAT IT-- AND THAT YOU GET
BETTER OVER TIME.
>> IT'S A STRUGGLE AT FIRST, BUT
YOU JUST GOT TO KEEP TRYING.
>> I FEEL CONFIDENT IN THE
CLASSMATES THAT I'VE SEEN AND IN
MYSELF THAT WE CAN BE THE CHANGE
THEY WANT TO SEE IN TEACHERS.
>> Reporter: SO WHAT DO ALL
THESE CHANGES IN TEACHING ADD UP
TO?
>> MAYBE ALL THESE CHANGES
AREN'T SO MUCH NEW AS THEY'RE
RETURNING TO THE OLD PATTERNS.
SO WHEN THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM
WAS-- WAS INVENTED OVER A
CENTURY AGO, IT WAS-- TEACHING
WAS-- QUITE EXPLICITLY AND
INTENTIONALLY MADE AN OCCUPATION
THAT WAS WOMEN, YOUNG WOMEN.
INDEED, YOU-- WHEN YOU GOT
MARRIED YOU HAD TO QUIT.
SO IT-- THERE WAS A LOTTA
TRANSIENCY.
>> Reporter: THAT WAS THEN.
>> THAT WAS THEN.
NOW WE SEE THAT IT'S THE
NATION'S LARGEST OCCUPATION.
IT'S GETTING BIGGER ALL THE
TIME.
IT'S BECOMING MORE FEMALE.
AND IT'S-- INSTABILITY IS
INCREASING.
SO MAYBE THE DATA ARE TELLING
THAT THESE TRANSFORMATIONS ARE
NOT SOMETHING NEW, THEY'RE
RETURNING TO THE OLD.
>> Reporter: SO THE TITLE OF
THIS MOVIE IS NOT "BACK TO THE
FUTURE," BUT "FORWARD TO THE
PAST"?
>> IT COULD BE.
IT COULD BE.
>> Reporter: A FAIR NUMBER OF
THESE NEWLY CERTIFIED TEACHERS
MAY YET FIND JOBS, BECAUSE
SCHOOL DISTRICTS CONTINUE HIRING
RIGHT UP TO THE BEGINNING OF THE
SCHOOL YEAR, EVEN INTO IT.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M JOHN
MERROW, REPORTING FROM
MONTCLAIR, NEW JERSEY.
>> Woodruff: NOW, AN UNLIKELY
WINNER OF A MAJOR LITERARY
PRIZE, JEFFREY BROWN PROFILES A
POET THAT CAPTURED THE DETAILS
OF DAILY LIFE IN VERSE.
>> I WAS BORN IN MINUTES IN A
ROADSIDE KITCHEN,
A SKILLET WHISPERING MY NAME.
I WAS BORN TO RAINWATER AND LYE;
I SPEND SO MUCH TIME IN THE
CLASSROOM, AND THEN I COME HOME
AND IT'S DOWN TO BUSINESS,
WASHING DISHES, CLEANING THE
KITCHEN, DOING LAUNDRY.
AND I DON'T WANT TO LEAVE ANY OF
THAT STUFF OUT OF THE POEMS.
>> Brown: GREGORY PARDLO IS A
TEACHER, STUDENT, HUSBAND AND
FATHER-- AND NOW A PULITZER-
PRIZE WINNING POET.
HIS REACTION WHEN HE HEARD THE
NEWS?
>> THE KIND OF CLICHE OF "I'M
SURE THEY MADE A MISTAKE."
WELL, YES, I WAS ABSOLUTELY SURE
THERE WAS A HUGE MISTAKE.
>> Brown: HE HAD REASON: HIS
PRIZE-WINNING BOOK, "DIGEST", IS
JUST HIS SECOND, AND PARDLO
ISN'T WELL-KNOWN EVEN WITHIN THE
SMALL POETRY COMMUNITY.
HE GREW UP IN A MIDDLE-CLASS
FAMILY IN WILLINGBORO, NEW
JERSEY, NEAR PHILADELPHIA.
HIS FATHER, AN AIR-TRAFFIC
CONTROLLER, WAS ONE OF THOSE
FIRED BY RONALD REAGAN DURING
THE 1981 STRIKE.
>> I REMEMBER WALKING THE PICKET
LINES WITH HIM.
IT WAS AN INSPIRING TIME FOR ME
AND A VERY HARD TIME FOR MY
FATHER, BECAUSE THIS WAS HIS
NARRATIVE, THIS WAS THE BIG
STORY OF HIS SUCCESS IN LIFE.
>> Brown: GREGORY PARDLO WOULD
FACE HIS OWN STRUGGLES AND
CIRCUITOUS PATH TO POETRY:
DROPPING OUT OF RUTGERS, FOR
EXAMPLE, DOUBTING HE WAS GOOD
ENOUGH TO SUCCEED.
HE SAYS HE WORRIES ABOUT THAT
WITH HIS OWN STUDENTS.
>> WATCHING THAT JUST REMINDS ME
OF THE LITTLE KID THAT I WAS WHO
HAD, NOT NECESSARILY AMBITIONS,
BUT CERTAINLY THOUGHT ANYTHING
WAS POSSIBLE FOR A LONG TIME,
UNTIL I BOUGHT INTO THE STORIES
ABOUT AFRICAN AMERICAN BOYS.
I GUESS ONE OF MY MISSIONS, IF I
CAN SAY I HAVE ONE, IS TO HAVE
MY STUDENTS AND HAVE MY READERS
QUESTION THE LIMITS THAT THEY
PLACE ON THEMSELVES.
>> Brown: HAVING LEFT SCHOOL,
PARDLO JOINED THE MARINE
RESERVES AND LATER, MANAGED A
BAR FOR SEVERAL YEARS, WHERE
JAZZ MUSICIANS, WORKING FOR
PEANUTS, TAUGHT HIM AN IMPORTANT
LESSON.
>> WATCHING THEM NIGHT AFTER
NIGHT AND STARTING TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT ACTUALLY GOES INTO THE
DISCIPLINE OF AN ARTIST, OF A
MUSICIAN, CERTAINLY.
AND HAVE A REGARD FOR, HAVING A
RESPECT FOR HOW MUCH WORK THAT
IT ACTUALLY ENTAILS.
>> Brown: TODAY, WITH SEVERAL
DEGREES IN HAND AND NOW A
TEACHING FELLOW AT COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY, PARDLO AND HIS
FAMILY LIVE IN BEDFORD-
STUYVESANT, A BROOKLYN
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT GETS INTO HIS
POETRY, AS DO SEEMINGLY
DISPARATE IDEAS AND PEOPLE-- THE
ANCIENT PHILOSOPHER HERACLITUS
AND THE CONTEMPORARY COMEDIAN
CHRIS ROCK.
>> THAT ACTUALLY SPEAKS TO THE
TITLE OF THE BOOK.
I'M A DIGEST OF ALL THESE
IDENTITIES, OF ALL THESE
INTERESTS.
>> Brown: HOW MUCH OF YOUR
FAMILY LIFE, YOUR HISTORY, THE
BOOKS YOU READ, HOW MUCH OF THAT
DO YOU WANT TO PUT INTO THE
POETRY?
>> ALL OF IT, AS MUCH AS I
POSSIBLY CAN.
WHEN I HAVE A SPEAKER ON THE
PAGE THAT IS PREDICTABLE, I
THINK THE ONE THING THAT A POEM
CANNOT ABIDE IS CLICHE.
AND I DON'T WANT THE SPEAKER TO
BE PREDICTABLE.
I DON'T WANT A SINGLE LINE TO BE
PREDICTABLE.
>> Brown: PARDLO SPEAKS OPENLY
OF OTHER STRUGGLES HE'S HAD,
INCLUDING A BATTLE WITH
ALCOHOLISM.
HE SAYS HIS FAMILY-- HIS WIFE
GINGER AND THEIR TWO DAUGHTERS--
PULLED HIM OUT OF IT.
AND NOW THE PULITZER GIVES HIM A
NEW SENSE OF RESPONSIBILITY.
>> I WANT TO BE HAPPY.
I WANT A LIFE THAT I FEEL GOOD
ABOUT.
I WANT A LIFE THAT I FEEL, IN
WHICH I FEEL PRODUCTIVE.
AND I WANT A LIFE IN WHICH, TO
WHATEVER EXTENT MY WORDS HAVE AN
IMPACT ON THE WORLD, I AT LEAST
FEEL LIKE I'M IN THE
CONVERSATION ABOUT WHAT WE DO
WITH THE SOCIETY WE LIVE IN.
THE ONE RULE I SET FOR MYSELF IS
TO MAKE DECISIONS THAT ARE GOOD
FOR MY FAMILY AND MY KIDS.
I WANT THEM TO BE PROUD OF ME.
I WANT THEM TO BE HAPPY.
THAT'S A CLICHE I CAN LIVE WITH.
I WAS BORN PASSING OFF THE
PROBLEM OF THE TWENTIETH
CENTURY: I WAS BORN.
I READ MINDS BEFORE I COULD READ
FISHES AND LOAVES;
I WALKED A PIECE OF THE WAY
ALONE BEFORE I WAS BORN.
>> Brown: FROM BROOKLYN, NEW
YORK, I'M JEFFREY BROWN FOR THE
PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, OUR
"NEWSHOUR SHARES" OF THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
WHICH MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
YOU, TOO.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS AND BRITISH
MOVIETONE ARE RELEASING OVER ONE
MILLION MINUTES OF ARCHIVAL
FOOTAGE POSTED TO YOUTUBE.
IT'S A TREASURE TROVE OF ICONIC
MILESTONES IN HISTORY AND SOME
RARELY-SEEN, AND QUIRKY, MOMENTS
AS WELL.
SOME OF OUR FAVORITE FINDS: THE
ERUPTION OF ITALY'S FAMED MOUNT
VESUVIUS IN 1938, A 1935
ELEPHANT RACE THROUGH THE
STREETS OF CHICAGO AND A HOME-
EXERCISE MACHINE FOR DOGS FROM
1937.
>> THEY GET THE JUNK AS THEY
LINE UP FOR THE JUMBO STAKES.
THEY'RE OFF.
A RACE IN CHICAGO, JUST A SPRINT
IF THE ROAD STANDS UP TO IT.
THE FIELD HURTLES ALONG.
THE DOG'S GOING FOR WALK.
HE'S WALKING ALL RIGHT.
JIMMY IS THE BRIGHTEST PUPIL AND
HE STRUTS ALONG LIKE HE WAS
FOLLOWING THE BUTCHER'S BOY.
>> Woodruff: THE 550,000 VIDEO
CLIPS DATE BACK TO 1895-- NEW
MATERIAL WILL BE AED EDDVERY
DAY.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE: FORENSIC SCIENTISTS IN
THIS OREGON LAB USE D.N.A.
TESTING AND HIGH TECH EQUIPMENT
TO EXAMINE CASES, BUT THEY DON'T
SOLVE MURDERS, THEY'RE LOOKING
FOR SUSPECTS IN CRIMES AGAINST
ENDANGERED PLANTS AND ANIMALS,
AND THEY'RE THE ONLY ONES IN THE
WORLD DEDICATED TO DO SO.
WE HAVE THEIR STORY, ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
THAT'S AT pbs.org/newshour.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY: HOW A VERY
SUCCESSFUL FAMILY PLANNING
PROGRAM IN COLORADO RAN OUT OF
MONEY BECAUSE THE LEGISLATURE
REFUSED TO FUND IT.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
JOIN US ONLINE AND AGAIN HERE
TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.